## SDoc data model @SEC-001

### REQUIREMENT: Data model @SDOC-SRS-18

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: Designing StrictDoc with a goal of having a consistent data model ensures that the tool:

1) can support a rich set of use cases,
2) model the existing documentation templates used by the industries,
3) interface well with other formats for storing documentation and requirements, e.g., ReqIF and SPDX.

> NOTES: Verification: data model diagram TBD.

StrictDoc shall be based on a data model.

### REQUIREMENT: Requirement model @SDOC-SRS-26

> STATUS: Active

StrictDoc\'s data model shall support modeling requirements.

### REQUIREMENT: Requirement model fields @SDOC-SRS-100

> STATUS: Active

StrictDoc\'s \"Requirement\" model shall support configurable fields system.

### REQUIREMENT: Requirement model default fields @SDOC-SRS-132

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: These fields are the most typical fields found in requirement documents.

By default, the Requirement shall support the following fields:

-   MID
-   UID
-   STATUS
-   TITLE
-   STATEMENT
-   RATIONALE
-   COMMENT.

### REQUIREMENT: Document model @SDOC-SRS-98

> STATUS: Active

StrictDoc\'s data model shall support modeling documents.

### REQUIREMENT: Document metadata @SDOC-SRS-110

> STATUS: Active

StrictDoc\'s data model shall support a Document metadata model including at least:

-   UID
-   Document version
-   Document classification
-   Document authors.

### REQUIREMENT: Document configuration @SDOC-SRS-151

> STATUS: Active

StrictDoc\'s data model shall support configuring the document options:

-   Enable/disable MID
-   Markup choice, e.g., RST, HTML, etc.
-   Levels (automatic or manual)
-   Node style
-   Default presentation view.

### REQUIREMENT: Section model @SDOC-SRS-99

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: "Section" corresponds to a chapter or a section in a document and helps to organize a document by grouping text nodes, requirements and other sections.

StrictDoc\'s data model shall support a concept of a \"Section\" which nests other Sections, Requirements, Texts.

### REQUIREMENT: Free text @SDOC-SRS-135

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: Documentation comprises normative components, such as uniquely identifiable elements like requirements or design items, and non-normative components, including introductory text, overview chapters, and other content. The non-normative parts help provide a general understanding for the reader but do not contribute to traceability information. StrictDoc's free text is designed to store this type of non-normative information in SDoc documents.

StrictDoc\'s data model shall support a \"Free Text\" model, representing non-normative documentation content.

### REQUIREMENT: Composeable document @SDOC-SRS-109

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: The logic behind the parent requirement remains fully relevant. Additionally, an alternative approach could involve using a dedicated entity, like "Fragment", to allow a Document to be composed of includable sections or document fragments. Managing composition at the Document level eliminates the need in additional entities like "Fragment", streamlining both the conceptual understanding and the practical implementation of composability.

> NOTES: The corresponding UI capability for Fragments CRUD is TBD.

StrictDoc\'s data model shall allow composing a Document from other Documents.

### REQUIREMENT: Requirement relations @SDOC-SRS-31

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: Support of both Parent and Child relations allows to build typical requirements relations such as child-to-parent and less common relations when one document can have parent links to a parent document and child links to a child document (e.g., the so-called "compliance" or "tailoring matrix" documents may use this structure).

The StrictDoc data model shall support connecting requirements using Parent and Child relations.

### REQUIREMENT: Requirement relation roles @SDOC-SRS-101

> STATUS: Active

Each SDoc relation shall be optionally configurable with a relation role.

NOTE: A relation role is a string value. Typical examples: \"refines\", \"verifies\", \"implements\".

### REQUIREMENT: Inline links @SDOC-SRS-149

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: The inline links do not replace the relations between SDoc nodes. Instead, an inline link could be an easy way to refer from one textual node to a chapter or a document. A common use case is "See section ABC for more details".

StrictDoc shall support referencing any node by embedding a hyperlink within the text content of another node.

### REQUIREMENT: Inline anchors @SDOC-SRS-150

> STATUS: Active

> RATIONALE: Anchors allow authors to define precise reference points within SDoc node fields.

StrictDoc shall support adding anchors within the text content of any node, such that these anchors can be referenced by inline links from other nodes.
